Docs: perform os upgrade from el7 to el8 (#16636)
greenplum-db/gpdb: gpdb-doc/markdown/install_guide/migrate-linux.html.md

---
title: Migrating VMware Greenplum from Enterprise Linux 7 to 8
---

Use this procedure to migrate a VMware Greenplum Database installation from Enterprise Linux version 7 to Enterprise Linux 8, while maintaining your existing version of Greenplum Database.

Enterprise Linux includes CentOS, Rocky, Redhat (RHEL), and Oracle Linux (OEL) as the variants supported by Greenplum. See [Platform Requirements](platform-requirements-overview.md.hbs) for a list of the supported operating systems.

Major version upgrades of Linux operating systems are always a complex task in a Greenplum environment. You must weigh the risks of the different upgrade methods versus not upgrading at all, as well as consider the impact of the required downtime.

## <a id="glib"></a>About the glibc GNU C Library Changes

> The GNU C Library, commonly known as `glibc`, is the GNU Project's implementation of the C standard library. Between EL 7 and 8, the version of `glibc` changes from 2.17 to 2.28. This is a major change that impacts many languages and their collation. The collation of a database specifies how to sort and compare strings of character data. A change in sorting for common languages can have a significant impact on PostgreSQL and Greenplum databases.

Reviewer: collation -> collations.

As part of the overall process of this upgrade method, you:

- Create a new Greenplum cluster on the EL 8 systems with no data.
- Address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config).
- Use `gpbackup` to take a full backup of the source Greenplum cluster on EL 7. Ensure that you are not using the option `--leaf-partition-data`.
- Restore the backup with `gprestore` to the destination Greenplum cluster on EL 8.
- Remove the source Greenplum cluster on the EL 7 systems.

The advantages of this method are different options for storage locations, and migration issues not impacting the source cluster. The disadvantage of this method is that it requires two separate Greenplum clusters during the migration. It is also generally slower than Greenplum Copy, and it requires table locks to perform a full backup.

### <a id="simultaneous"></a>Simultaneous, In-Place Upgrade

Redhat and Oracle Linux both support options for in-place upgrade of the operating system using the Leapp utility. 

> > **Note** In-Place upgrades with the Leapp utility are not supported with Rocky Linux. You must use a logical replication method such as Greenplum Copy or Greenplum Backup and Restore instead.

Reviewer: I would refrain from using the term "logical replication" as it refers to the Logical Replication PG feature. Just say "you must use Greenplum Copy or Greenplum Backup and Restore instead"

---
title: Migrating VMware Greenplum from Enterprise Linux 7 to 8
---

Use this procedure to migrate a VMware Greenplum Database installation from Enterprise Linux version 7 to Enterprise Linux 8, while maintaining your existing version of Greenplum Database.

Enterprise Linux includes CentOS, Rocky, Redhat (RHEL), and Oracle Linux (OEL) as the variants supported by Greenplum. See [Platform Requirements](platform-requirements-overview.md.hbs) for a list of the supported operating systems.

> Major version upgrades of Linux operating systems are always a complex task in a Greenplum environment. You must balance the risks of the different upgrade methods, downtime, or not upgrading for your business. 

Reviewer 2: You must balance the risks of the different upgrade methods, downtime, or not upgrading for your business. 

==>

You must weigh the risks of the different upgrade methods versus not upgrading at all, as well as consider the impact of the required downtime.

## <a id="glib"></a>About the glibc GNU C Library Changes

> The GNU C Library, commonly known as `glibc`, is the GNU Project's implementation of the C standard library. Between EL 7 and 8, the version of `glibc` changes from 2.17 to 2.28. This is a major change that impacts many languages and their collation, or sorting. A change in sorting for common languages can have a significant impact on PostgreSQL and Greenplum databases.

Reviewer 2: "and their collation"

What's being collated, exactly?

Author: I have added a short explanation, let me know if it looks OK.

PostgreSQL and Greenplum databases use locale data provided by the operating system’s C library for sorting text. Sorting happens in a variety of contexts, including for user output, merge joins, B-tree indexes, and range partitions. In the latter two cases, sorted data is persisted to disk. If the locale data in the C library changes during the lifetime of a database, the persisted data may become inconsistent with the expected sort order, which could lead to erroneous query results and other incorrect behavior. 

If an index is not sorted in a way that an index scan is expecting it, a query could fail to find data, and an update could insert duplicate data. Similarly, in a partitioned table, a query could look in the wrong partition and an update could write to the wrong partition. A range-partitioned table using default partitions could display the rows in an incorrect order after an upgrade. For example:

> 

Reviewer 3: There is an example of this case
> Similarly, in a partitioned table, a query could look in the wrong partition and an update could write to the wrong partition.
```
CREATE TABLE partition_range_test_3(id int, date text) DISTRIBUTED BY (id)
PARTITION BY RANGE (date)
      (
        PARTITION jan START ('01') INCLUSIVE,
        PARTITION feb START ('"02"') INCLUSIVE,
        PARTITION mar START ('"03"') INCLUSIVE );

insert into partition_range_test_3 values (1, '01'), (1, '"01"'), (1, '"02"'), (1, '02'), (1, '03'), (1, '"03"'), (1, '04'), (1, '"04"');

testupgrade=# \dS+ partition_range_test_3;
                Table "public.partition_range_test_3"
 Column |  Type   | Modifiers | Storage  | Stats target | Description
--------+---------+-----------+----------+--------------+-------------
 id     | integer |           | plain    |              |
 date   | text    |           | extended |              |
Child tables: partition_range_test_3_1_prt_feb,
              partition_range_test_3_1_prt_jan,
              partition_range_test_3_1_prt_mar
Distributed by: (id)
Partition by: (date)

testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3 order by date;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "01"
  1 | 01
  1 | "02"
  1 | 02
  1 | "03"
  1 | 03
  1 | "04"
  1 | 04
(8 rows)

testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_jan ;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | 01
  1 | "01"
  1 | 02
(3 rows)

testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_feb ;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "02"
  1 | 03
(2 rows)

testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_mar ;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "03"
  1 | 04
  1 | "04"
(3 rows)

--- !! wrong results here !!--------
testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3 where date='03';
 id | date
----+------
(0 rows)

testupgrade=# explain select * from partition_range_test_3 where date='03';
                                           QUERY PLAN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Gather Motion 4:1  (slice1; segments: 4)  (cost=0.00..720.00 rows=50 width=36)
   ->  Append  (cost=0.00..720.00 rows=13 width=36)
         ->  Seq Scan on partition_range_test_3_1_prt_mar  (cost=0.00..720.00 rows=13 width=36)
               Filter: (date = '03'::text)
 Optimizer: Postgres query optimizer
(5 rows)

testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_mar;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "03"
  1 | 04
  1 | "04"
(3 rows)

testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_feb ;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "02"
  1 | 03
(2 rows)

--- !! wrong results with orca !! ----
testupgrade=# select * from partition_range_test_3 where date='03';
 id | date
----+------
(0 rows)

testupgrade=# explain select * from partition_range_test_3 where date='03';
                                                      QUERY PLAN
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Gather Motion 4:1  (slice1; segments: 4)  (cost=0.00..431.00 rows=1 width=12)
   ->  Sequence  (cost=0.00..431.00 rows=1 width=12)
         ->  Partition Selector for partition_range_test_3 (dynamic scan id: 1)  (cost=10.00..100.00 rows=25 width=4)
               Partitions selected: 1 (out of 3)
         ->  Dynamic Seq Scan on partition_range_test_3 (dynamic scan id: 1)  (cost=0.00..431.00 rows=1 width=12)
               Filter: (date = '03'::text)
 Optimizer: Pivotal Optimizer (GPORCA)
(7 rows)
```

Author: @z-wenlin thank you. I took some snippets from that example as it looks a bit too long for the documentation. Is what I added correct and illustrative?

Reviewer 3: Yes, it is also correct, but I think this example is more illustrative than the example that added one. Maybe we could replace that example with this one.
This is the short version of the above example.
```
CREATE TABLE partition_range_test_3(id int, date text) DISTRIBUTED BY (id)
PARTITION BY RANGE (date)
      (
        PARTITION jan START ('01') INCLUSIVE,
        PARTITION feb START ('"02"') INCLUSIVE,
        PARTITION mar START ('"03"') INCLUSIVE );

insert into partition_range_test_3 values (1, '01'), (1, '"01"'), (1, '"02"'), (1, '02'), (1, '03'), (1, '"03"'), (1, '04'), (1, '"04"');

--- !! wrong results here !!--------
=# select * from partition_range_test_3 where date='03';
 id | date
----+------
(0 rows)

=# explain select * from partition_range_test_3 where date='03';
                                           QUERY PLAN
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Gather Motion 4:1  (slice1; segments: 4)  (cost=0.00..720.00 rows=50 width=36)
   ->  Append  (cost=0.00..720.00 rows=13 width=36)
         ->  Seq Scan on partition_range_test_3_1_prt_mar  (cost=0.00..720.00 rows=13 width=36)
               Filter: (date = '03'::text)
 Optimizer: Postgres query optimizer
(5 rows)

=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_mar;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "03"
  1 | 04
  1 | "04"
(3 rows)

=# select * from partition_range_test_3_1_prt_feb ;
 id | date
----+------
  1 | "02"
  1 | 03
(2 rows)
```

Author: thank you, this is great

- Create a new Greenplum cluster on the EL 8 systems with no data.
- Address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config).
- Use `gpcopy` to migrate data from the source Greenplum cluster on EL 7 to the destination Greenplum cluster on EL 8.
- Remove the source Greenplum cluster from the EL 7 systems.

The advantages of this method are optimized performance, migration issues not impacting the source cluster, and that it does not require table locks. The disadvantage of this method is that it requires two separate Greenplum clusters during the migration.

### <a id="gpbackup"></a>Greenplum Backup and Restore

[Greenplum Backup and Restore](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Greenplum-Backup-and-Restore/index.html) supports parallel and non-parallel methods for backing up and restoring databases. 

The utility is compatible with the Greenplum Database cluster from the source and destination running on different operating systems, including EL 7 to EL 8. The `glibc` changes are not relevant for this migration method because the data is rewritten to disk on the new cluster, which addresses any locale sorting changes. 

> Greenplum Backup and Restore supports many different options for storage locations. Including local, public cloud storage such as S3, and Dell EMC Data Domain through the use of the [gpbackup storage plugins](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Greenplum-Backup-and-Restore/1.29/greenplum-backup-and-restore/admin_guide-managing-backup-plugins.html). Any of the supported options for storage locations to perform the data transfer are supported for the EL 7 to EL 8 upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Greenplum Backup and Restore supports many different options for storage locations. Including

==>

Greenplum Backup and Restore supports many different options for storage locations, including

The overall process of this upgrade method consists of:

- Create a new Greenplum cluster on the EL 8 systems with no data.
- Address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config).
- Use `gpbackup` to take a full backup of the source Greenplum cluster on EL 7.
- Restore the backup with `gprestore` to the destination Greenplum cluster on EL 8.
- Remove the source Greenplum cluster on the EL 7 systems.

> The advantages of this method are different options for storage locations, and migration issues not impacting the source cluster. The disadvantage of this method is that it requires two separate Greenplum clusters during the migration. It is also generally slower than Greenplum Copy, and it requires table locks to perform a full backup.

Reviewer 2: locations,

==>

locations

Author: are you sure? They are different advantages:
1. different options for storage locations
2. migration issues don't impact source cluster

### <a id="simultaneous"></a>Simultaneous, In-Place Upgrade

Redhat and Oracle Linux both support options for in-place upgrade of the operating system using the Leapp utility. 

> **Note** In-Place upgrades with the Leapp utility are not supported with Rocky Linux. You must use a logical replication method such as Greenplum Copy or Greenplum Backup and Restore instead.

Greenplum Database includes the `upgrade_check.py` utility which helps you identify and address the main challenges associated with an in-place upgrade from EL 7 to 8 caused by the `glibc` GNU C library changes.

> The overall process of this upgrade method consists of:

Reviewer 2: The overall process of this upgrade method consists of:

==>

As part of the overall process of this upgrade method, you:

> - Run the `upgrade_check.py` utility to perform the pre-check scripts to get the details of any objects that can potentially have data impact from upgrade.

Reviewer 2: Run the `upgrade_check.py` utility to perform the pre-check scripts to get the details of any objects that can potentially have data impact from upgrade.

==> 

Run the `upgrade_check.py` utility to perform pre-check scripts; these scripts report information on any objects whose data the upgrade might affect.

- Stop the Greenplum cluster and use Leapp to run an in-place upgrade of the operating system.
- Address any required operating system configuration differences and start the Greenplum cluster.
- Follow the required steps for fixing the data that is impacted by the `glibc` locale sorting changes.

The advantage of this method is that it does not require two different Greenplum clusters. The disadvantages are the risk of performing an in-place operating system upgrade, no downgrade options after any issues, the risk of issues that could leave your cluster in a non-operating state, and the requirement of additional steps after the upgrade is complete to address the `glibc` changes. You must also plan downtime of your Greenplum database for the entire process.

Continue reading for a detailed list of steps to upgrade your cluster using this method.

#### <a id="precheck"></a>Run the Pre-Check Script

> Before you begin with the upgrade, connect to each database in your Greenplum Database cluster, and run the following commands:

Reviewer 2: begin with ==> begin

```
python upgrade_check.py precheck-index --out index.out
python upgrade_check.py precheck-table --pre_upgrade --out table.out
```

> You may modify the name of the output files if using more than one database. For example, `index-database_name.out`, `table-database_name.out`.

Reviewer 3: Actually, the `precheck-index` and `precheck-table` will iterate all the databases and do the checking automatically, no need to connect to each database by users, and the output file will include multiple database results if using more than one database.

The subcommand `precheck-index` checks each database for indexes involving columns of type `text`, `varchar`, `char`, and `citext`, and the subcommand `precheck-table` checks each database for range-partitioned tables using these types in the partition key. The option `--pre_upgrade` lists the partition tables with the partition key using built-in collatable types.

Examine the output files to identify which indexes and range-partitioned tables are affected by the `glibc` GNU C library changes. The provided information will help you estimate the amount of work required during the upgrade process.

> In order to address the issues caused to the range-partitioned tables, the utility recreates the affected tables at a later step. This can result in additional space requirements for your database, so you must account for additional database space.

Reviewer 3: maybe change recreates to rebuild?

#### <a id="upgrade"></a>Perform the Upgrade

Stop the Greenplum Database cluster and use the Leapp utility to run the in-place upgrade for your operating system. Visit the [Redhat Documentation](https://access.redhat.com/articles/4263361) and the [Oracle Documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/operating-systems/oracle-linux/8/leapp/#Oracle-Linux-8) for more information on how to use the utility.

Once the upgrade is complete, address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config), and start the Greenplum Database cluster.

#### <a id="fix"></a>Fix the Impacted Data

##### <a id="indexes"></a>Indexes

All indexes involving columns of collatable data types (`text`, `varchar`, `char`, and `citext`) must be reindexed before the database instance is put into production. 

> Run the `upgrade_check.py` utility with the `migrate` subcommand for each database to reindex the necessary indexes. Modify the input file name if required.

Reviewer 3: the `migrate` subcommand will parse the content in the specified output files and it will connect to each database and run the `reindex XXX` command or rebuild the partition table commands. No need to connect to each Database manually. 

The output content in the file looks like:
```
$ cat index.out
\c  postgres
-- catalog indexrelid: 3597 | index name: pg_seclabel_object_index | table name: pg_seclabel | collname: default | indexdef:  CREATE UNIQUE INDEX pg_seclabel_object_index ON pg_catalog.pg_seclabel USING btree (objoid, classoid, objsubid, provider)
reindex index pg_seclabel_object_index;

-- catalog indexrelid: 3593 | index name: pg_shseclabel_object_index | table name: pg_shseclabel | collname: default | indexdef:  CREATE UNIQUE INDEX pg_shseclabel_object_index ON pg_catalog.pg_shseclabel USING btree (objoid, classoid, provider)
reindex index pg_shseclabel_object_index;

\c  test
-- indexrelid: 16512 | index name: testupgrade.hash_idx1 | table name: testupgrade.hash_test1 | collname: default | indexdef:  CREATE INDEX hash_idx1 ON testupgrade.hash_test1 USING btree (content)
reindex index testupgrade.hash_idx1;
```

```
python upgrade_check.py migrate --input index.out
```

##### <a id="rangepart"></a>Range-Partitioned Tables

> Range-partitioned tables using collatable data types in the partition key must be checked to verify that all rows are still in the correct partitions. 

Reviewer 2: Range-partitioned tables using collatable data types in the partition key must be checked

==> 

You must check range-partitioned tables using collatable data types in the partition key

First, run the `upgrade_check.py` utility with the `precheck-table` subcommand for each database in order to verify if the rows are still in the correct partitions after the operating system upgrade. Modify the output file name if required.

```
python upgrade_check.py precheck-table --out table.out
```

The utility returns the list of range-partitioned tables whose rows have been affected. Run the utility using the `migrate` subcommand for each database to rebuild the partitions that have their rows in an incorrect order after the upgrade. Modify the input file name if required.

```
python upgrade_check.py migrate --input table.out
```

#### <a id="postfix"></a>Verify the Changes

Run the pre-upgrade scripts again for each database to verify that all required changes in the database have been addressed.

```
python upgrade_check.py precheck-index --out index.out
python upgrade_check.py precheck-table --out table.out
```

If the utility returns no indexes nor tables, you have successfully addressed all the issues in your Greenplum Database cluster caused by the `glibc` GNU C library changes.

## <a id="os_config"></a>Operating System Configuration Differences

> When you prepare your operating system environment for Greenplum Database software installation, there are different configuration options depending on the version of your operating system. Detailed documentation already exists in the pages [Configuring Your Systems](install_guide-prep_os.html) and [Using Resource Groups](../admin_guide/workload_mgmt_resgroups.html#topic71717999). This section summarizes the main differences to take into consideration when you upgrade from EL 7 to EL 8 regardless of the upgrade method you use.

Reviewer 2: Detailed documentation already exists in the pages [Configuring Your Systems](install_guide-prep_os.html) and [Using Resource Groups](../admin_guide/workload_mgmt_resgroups.html#topic71717999).

==> 

See [Configuring Your Systems](install_guide-prep_os.html) and [Using Resource Groups](../admin_guide/workload_mgmt_resgroups.html#topic71717999) for detailed documentation on.

```
# SELECT * FROM partition_range_test_2 ORDER BY date;
id | date
----+------
  1 | 01
  2 | "02"
  2 | 02
  3 | "03"
  3 | 03
(5 rows)

# INSERT INTO partition_range_test_2 VALUES (1, '"01"');
ERROR:  no partition of relation "partition_range_test_2" found for row  (seg1 10.80.0.2:7003 pid=40499)
DETAIL:  Partition key of the failing row contains (date) = ("01").
```

Therefore, it is essential to the correct operation of a database that the locale definitions do not change during the lifetime of a database. See the [Postgres Documentation](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Locale_data_changes) for more details. 

You must take the following into consideration when planning an upgrade from EL 7 to EL 8:

- All indexes involving columns of collatable data type, such as `text`, `varchar`, `char`, and `citext`, must be reindexed before the database instance is put into production.
- Range-partitioned tables using collatable data types in the partition key should be checked to verify that all rows are still in the correct partitions.
- To avoid downtime due to reindexing or repartitioning, consider upgrading using Greenplum Copy or Greenplum Backup and Restore instead.

> - Databases or table columns using the `C` or `POSIX` locales are not affected. All other locales are potentially affected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- When using an in-place upgrade method, databases or table columns using the `C` or `POSIX` locales are not affected. All other locales are potentially affected.
```

May want to shift this up one bullet point.

## <a id="methods"></a>Upgrade Methods

The following methods are the currently supported options to perform a major version upgrade from EL 7 to EL 8 with Greenplum Database.

- Using Greenplum Copy Utility to copy from Greenplum on EL 7 to a separate Greenplum on EL 8.

> - Using Greenplum Backup and Restore to copy from Greenplum on EL 7 to a separate Greenplum on EL 8.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Using Greenplum Backup and Restore to restore a backup taken from Greenplum on EL 7 to a separate Greenplum on EL 8.
```

> - Using the Leapp utility to perform an in-place, simultaneous upgrade of EL 7 to EL 8 for all Greenplum hosts in a cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Using operating system vendor supported utilities, such as `leapp` to perform an in-place, simultaneous upgrade of EL 7 to EL 8 for all Greenplum hosts in a cluster then following the required post upgrade steps.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: In some sort of warning box:

```suggestion
Greenplum does not support a rolling upgrade, such that some Greenplum Segment Hosts are operating with EL 7 and others with EL 8. All Segment Hosts must be upgraded together or otherwise before Greenplum is started and workload continued after an upgrade. ```

### <a id="gpcopy"></a>Greenplum Copy Utility

The [Greenplum Copy Utility](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Greenplum-Data-Copy-Utility/index.html) is a utility for transferring data between databases in different Greenplum Database systems. 

> This utility is compatible with the Greenplum Database cluster from the source and destination running on different operating systems, including EL 7 to EL 8. The `glibc` changes are not relevant for the most part of this migration method because the data is rewritten to disk on the new cluster, which addresses any locale sorting changes. However, since Greenplum Copy enables the option `-parallelize-leaf-partitions` by default, which copies the leaf partition tables of a partitioned table in parallel, it may lead to data being copied to an incorrect partition caused by the `glibc` changes. You must disable this option so that the table is copied as one single table based on the root partition table. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This utility is compatible with the Greenplum Database cluster from the source and destination running on different operating systems, including EL 7 to EL 8. The `glibc` changes are not relevant for this migration method because the data is rewritten on copy to the target cluster, which addresses any locale sorting changes. However, since Greenplum Copy enables the option `-parallelize-leaf-partitions` by default, which copies the leaf partition tables of a partitioned table in parallel, it may lead to data being copied to an incorrect partition caused by the `glibc` changes. You must disable this option so that the table is copied as one single table based on the root partition table. 
```

As part of the overall process of this upgrade method, you:

> - Create a new Greenplum cluster on the EL 8 systems with no data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Create a new Greenplum cluster using EL 8 with no data
```

- Address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config).
- Use `gpcopy` to migrate data from the source Greenplum cluster on EL 7 to the destination Greenplum cluster on EL 8. You must disable the option `-parallelize-leaf-partitions` to ensure that partitioned tables are copied as one single table based on the root partition. 
- Remove the source Greenplum cluster from the EL 7 systems.

The advantages of this method are optimized performance, migration issues not impacting the source cluster, and that it does not require table locks. The disadvantage of this method is that it requires two separate Greenplum clusters during the migration.

### <a id="gpbackup"></a>Greenplum Backup and Restore

[Greenplum Backup and Restore](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Greenplum-Backup-and-Restore/index.html) supports parallel and non-parallel methods for backing up and restoring databases. 

> The utility is compatible with the Greenplum Database cluster from the source and destination running on different operating systems, including EL 7 to EL 8. The `glibc` changes are not relevant for the most part of this migration method because the data is rewritten to disk on the new cluster, which addresses any locale sorting changes. However, if the backup command includes the option `--leaf-partition-data`, it creates one data file per leaf partition, instead of one data file for the entire table. In this situation, when you restore the partition data to the upgraded cluster, the utility copies the data directly into the leaf partitions, which may lead to data being copied into an incorrect partition caused by the `glibc` changes. Therefore, you must ensure that the backup command does not use the option `--leaf-partition-data` so partitioned tables are copied as a single data file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The utility is compatible with the Greenplum Database cluster from the source and destination running on different operating systems, including EL 7 to EL 8. The `glibc` changes are not relevant for this migration method because the data is rewritten on the new cluster, which addresses any locale sorting changes. However, if the backup command includes the option `--leaf-partition-data`, it creates one data file per leaf partition, instead of one data file for the entire table. In this situation, when you restore the partition data to the upgraded cluster, the utility copies the data directly into the leaf partitions, which may lead to data being copied into an incorrect partition caused by the `glibc` changes. Therefore, you must ensure that the backup command does not use the option `--leaf-partition-data` so partitioned tables are copied as a single data file.
```

Greenplum Backup and Restore supports many different options for storage locations, including local, public cloud storage such as S3, and Dell EMC Data Domain through the use of the [gpbackup storage plugins](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Greenplum-Backup-and-Restore/1.29/greenplum-backup-and-restore/admin_guide-managing-backup-plugins.html). Any of the supported options for storage locations to perform the data transfer are supported for the EL 7 to EL 8 upgrade.

As part of the overall process of this upgrade method, you:

> - Create a new Greenplum cluster on the EL 8 systems with no data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Create a new Greenplum cluster using EL 8 with no data
```

- Address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config).
- Use `gpbackup` to take a full backup of the source Greenplum cluster on EL 7. Ensure that you are not using the option `--leaf-partition-data`.
- Restore the backup with `gprestore` to the destination Greenplum cluster on EL 8.
- Remove the source Greenplum cluster on the EL 7 systems.

The advantages of this method are different options for storage locations, and migration issues not impacting the source cluster. The disadvantage of this method is that it requires two separate Greenplum clusters during the migration. It is also generally slower than Greenplum Copy, and it requires table locks to perform a full backup.

### <a id="simultaneous"></a>Simultaneous, In-Place Upgrade

Redhat and Oracle Linux both support options for in-place upgrade of the operating system using the Leapp utility. 

> > **Note** In-Place upgrades with the Leapp utility are not supported with Rocky Linux. You must use Greenplum Copy or Greenplum Backup and Restore instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> **Note** In-Place upgrades with the Leapp utility are not supported with Rocky or CentOS Linux. You must use Greenplum Copy or Greenplum Backup and Restore instead.
```

Greenplum Database includes the `upgrade_check.py` utility which helps you identify and address the main challenges associated with an in-place upgrade from EL 7 to 8 caused by the `glibc` GNU C library changes.

As part of the overall process of this upgrade method, you:

- Run the `upgrade_check.py` utility to perform pre-check scripts, these scripts report information on any objects whose data the upgrade might affect.
- Stop the Greenplum cluster and use Leapp to run an in-place upgrade of the operating system.

> - Address any required operating system configuration differences and start the Greenplum cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Address any [Operating System Configuration Differences](#os_config).
```

Author: I link to the section when I provide the detail instructions, I thought it be easier to just outline what it's done in order to prevent jumping across the document at this stage.

Reviewer 4: Ok, good choice.

> - Follow the required steps for fixing the data that is impacted by the `glibc` locale sorting changes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Follow the required steps given by the `upgrade_check.py` for fixing the data that is impacted by the `glibc` locale sorting changes.
```

The advantage of this method is that it does not require two different Greenplum clusters. The disadvantages are the risk of performing an in-place operating system upgrade, no downgrade options after any issues, the risk of issues that could leave your cluster in a non-operating state, and the requirement of additional steps after the upgrade is complete to address the `glibc` changes. You must also plan downtime of your Greenplum database for the entire process.

Continue reading for a detailed list of steps to upgrade your cluster using this method.

> > **Important** We recommend you take a backup of your cluster before proceeding with this method, as you will not be able to recover the database if the upgrade does not complete successfully.

Reviewer 4: We may as well want to recommend being prepared to contact your operating system vendor for any issues encountered with the `leapp` utility.
